docs/source/template-tags/call.md, before:

# call

The `call` template tag allows functions to be called from within a template.

```{note}
Make sure to [install `dj_angles`](../installation.md#template-tags) and include `{% load dj_angles %}` in your template if `"dj_angles.templatetags.dj_angles"` is not added to template built-ins.
```

## Example

Let's say you have a `Book` model and you want to list all of the books, but add an icon if the book has been read by the current user.

### Models

```python
# models.py
from django.db import models

class Book(models.Model):
    title = models.CharField(max_length=100)

    def is_read(self, user):
        if user.is_anonymous:
            return False

        return self.readers.filter(user=user).exists()

class Reader(models.Model):
    user = models.ForeignKey('auth.User', on_delete=models.CASCADE)
    book = models.ForeignKey('Book', related_name='readers', on_delete=models.CASCADE)
```

### Template

There are a few different ways to show an icon if a book has been read.

```{note}
All of these examples probably result in n+1 queries 🤪, but the code is kept simple just as an example.
```

#### Add an attribute to the model in the view

This feels a little clunky and adds an implicit attribute to the model which is not very discoverable.

```python
# views.py
from django.shortcuts import render
from book.models import Book

def index(request):
    books = Book.objects.all()

    # Loop over all books and add an attribute
    for book in books:
        book.current_user_read = book.is_read(request.user)

    return render(request, 'index.html', {'books': books})
```

```html
<!-- index.html -->
{% for book in books %}
<div>
  {{ book.title }}

  {% if book.current_user_read %}
  ✅
  {% else %}
  ❌
  {% endif %}
</div>
{% endfor %}
```

#### Make a custom template tag

This encapsulates template logic in Python code so it can be tested. However, it requires extra code for every use case and can feel like additional work especially for "pass-through" template tags which just call a function.

```python
# views.py
from django.shortcuts import render
from book.models import Book

def index(request):
    books = Book.objects.all()

    return render(request, 'index.html', {'books': books})
```

```python
# templatetags/book_tags.py
from django import template

register = template.Library()

@register.simple_tag(takes_context=True)
def current_user_read(context, book):
    request = context.get("request")

    if request and not request.user.is_anonymous:
        return book.is_read(request.user)

    return False
```

```html
<!-- index.html -->
{% load book_tags %}

{% for book in books %}
<div>
  {{ book.title }}

  {% if current_user_read book %}
  ✅
  {% else %}
  ❌
  {% endif %}
</div>
{% endfor %}
```

#### Use the `call` template tag

This is basically like a custom template tag, but without creating it every time.

```python
# views.py
from django.shortcuts import render
from book.models import Book

def index(request):
    books = Book.objects.all()

    return render(request, 'index.html', {'books': books})
```

```html
<!-- index.html -->
{% for book in books %}
<div>
  {{ book.title }}

  {% call book.is_read(request.user) as current_user_read %}

  {% if current_user_read %}
  ✅
  {% else %}
  ❌
  {% endif %}
</div>
{% endfor %}
```

## Calling functions

The template tag function argument tries to look as similar to normal Python code as possible. It is followed by the word "as" and then a variable name that will store the result of the function in the context for later use.

```html
<!-- index.html -->
{% call slugify('Hello Goodbye') as slug %}

{{ slug }} <!-- hello-goodbye -->
```

The `call` template tag can only call functions that are available in the context. So, the `slugify` function needs to be added to the context in the view.

```python
# views.py
from django.shortcuts import render
from django.utils.text import slugify

def index(request):
    return render(request, 'index.html', {'slugify': slugify})
```

## Traversing

### Objects

```python
# views.py
from django.shortcuts import render
import django

def index(request):
    return render(request, 'index.html', {'django': django})
```

```html
{% call django.utils.text.slugify('Hello Goodbye') as slug %}

{{ slug }} <!-- hello-goodbye -->
```

### Dictionaries

```python
# views.py
from django.shortcuts import render
import django

def index(request):
    data = {"functions": {"slugify": django.utils.text.slugify}}
    return render(request, "index.html", {"data": data})
```

```html
<!-- index.html -->
{% call data.functions.slugify('Hello Goodbye') as slug %}

{{ slug }} <!-- hello-goodbye -->
```

## Supported argument types

Most Python primitives are supported as arguments, e.g. strings, ints, lists, dictionaries, etc.

```python
# views.py
from django.shortcuts import render

def index(request):
    return render(request, 'index.html', {'add': lambda a, b: a + b})
```

```html
<!-- index.html -->
{% call add(2, 3) as result %}

{{ result }} <!-- 5 -->
```

### Datetimes

There are a few helper methods available to parse datetimes from strings in the [django.utils.dateparse](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/stable/ref/utils/#module-django.utils.dateparse) module.

```python
# views.py
from django.shortcuts import render
from datetime import timedelta
from django.utils.dateparse import parse_datetime

def index(request):
    return render(request, 'index.html', {'add_day': lambda dt: parse_datetime(dt) + timedelta(days=1)})
```

```html
<!-- index.html -->
{% call add_day("2025-03-14") as next_day %}

{{ next_day|date:"r" }} <!-- Wed, 13 Mar 2025 00:00:00 -->
```

## Template variables

Django template variables can be used for args or kwargs (as long as they are available in the context).

```python
# views.py
from django.shortcuts import render

def index(request):
    return render(request, 'index.html', {'add': lambda a, b: a + b, 'number_one': 1, 'number_two': 2})
```

```html
<!-- index.html -->
{% call add(number_one, number_two) as result %}

{{ result }} <!-- 3 -->
```

```{note}
If a variable is referred to, but is not available in the context a `VariableDoesNotExist` error will be raised.
```

## Unpacking

Lists and dictionaries can be unpacked using the `*` and `**` operators.

### Args

```python
# views.py
from django.shortcuts import render

def index(request):
    return render(request, 'index.html', {'add': lambda a, b: a + b, 'numbers': [2, 3]})
```

```html
<!-- index.html -->
{% call add(*[2, 3]) as result %}

<!-- using template variable -->
{% call add(*numbers) as result %}

<!-- without unpacking -->
{% call add(2, 3) as result %}

{{ result }} <!-- 5 -->
```

### Kwargs

```python
# views.py
from django.shortcuts import render

def make_name(first_name, last_name):
    return f"{first_name} {last_name}"

def index(request):
    return render(request, 'index.html', {'make_name': make_name, 'name': {'first_name': 'Alice', 'last_name': 'Smith'}})
```

```html
<!-- index.html -->
{% call make_name(**{'first_name': 'Alice', 'last_name': 'Smith'}) as result %}

<!-- using template variable -->
{% call make_name(**name) as result %}

<!-- without unpacking -->
{% call make_name(first_name='Alice', last_name='Smith') as result %}

{{ result }} <!-- Alice Smith -->
```

## Querysets

```python
# views.py
from django.shortcuts import render
from book.models import Book

def index(request):
    books = Book.objects.all()
    return render(request, 'index.html', {'books': books})
```

```html
<!-- index.html -->
{% call books.filter(published__gte='2020-01-01').order_by('name') as books %}

<ul>
{% for book in books %}
<li>{{ book }}</li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>
```

## How does this work?

The `call` template tag is a [custom template tag](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/stable/howto/custom-template-tags/#advanced-custom-template-tags) which parses the first argument into Python AST and then evaluates it. After evaluation, the result is stored in the context with the name specified.

```{note}
If your first thought is "parsing a string into the AST is probably slow", then you might be right. However, usually network latency and database performance will be the actual bottleneck for most applications. However, as always, it is up to each individual to decide if the potential performance implications are worth the trade-off of having less custom code.
```

## Other approaches

- https://djangosnippets.org/snippets/10633/
- https://stackoverflow.com/a/7141173/1962

Commit message:

Return a stringified result from `call`.

docs/source/template-tags/call.md, after:

# call

The `call` template tag allows functions to be called from within a template.

```{note}
Make sure to [install `dj_angles`](../installation.md#template-tags) and include `{% load dj_angles %}` in your template if `"dj_angles.templatetags.dj_angles"` is not added to template built-ins.
```

## Example

Let's say you have a `Book` model and you want to list all of the books, but add an icon if the book has been read by the current user.

### Models

```python
# models.py
from django.db import models

class Book(models.Model):
    title = models.CharField(max_length=100)

    def is_read(self, user):
        if user.is_anonymous:
            return False

        return self.readers.filter(user=user).exists()

class Reader(models.Model):
    user = models.ForeignKey('auth.User', on_delete=models.CASCADE)
    book = models.ForeignKey('Book', related_name='readers', on_delete=models.CASCADE)
```

### Template

There are a few different ways to show an icon if a book has been read.

```{note}
All of these examples probably result in n+1 queries 🤪, but the code is kept simple just as an example.
```

#### Add an attribute to the model in the view

This feels a little clunky and adds an implicit attribute to the model which is not very discoverable.

```python
# views.py
from django.shortcuts import render
from book.models import Book

def index(request):
    books = Book.objects.all()

    # Loop over all books and add an attribute
    for book in books:
        book.current_user_read = book.is_read(request.user)

    return render(request, 'index.html', {'books': books})
```

```html
<!-- index.html -->
{% for book in books %}
<div>
  {{ book.title }}

  {% if book.current_user_read %}
  ✅
  {% else %}
  ❌
  {% endif %}
</div>
{% endfor %}
```

#### Make a custom template tag

This encapsulates template logic in Python code so it can be tested. However, it requires extra code for every use case and can feel like additional work especially for "pass-through" template tags which just call a function.

```python
# views.py
from django.shortcuts import render
from book.models import Book

def index(request):
    books = Book.objects.all()

    return render(request, 'index.html', {'books': books})
```

```python
# templatetags/book_tags.py
from django import template

register = template.Library()

@register.simple_tag(takes_context=True)
def current_user_read(context, book):
    request = context.get("request")

    if request and not request.user.is_anonymous:
        return book.is_read(request.user)

    return False
```

```html
<!-- index.html -->
{% load book_tags %}

{% for book in books %}
<div>
  {{ book.title }}

  {% if current_user_read book %}
  ✅
  {% else %}
  ❌
  {% endif %}
</div>
{% endfor %}
```

#### Use the `call` template tag

This is basically like a custom template tag, but without creating it every time.

```python
# views.py
from django.shortcuts import render
from book.models import Book

def index(request):
    books = Book.objects.all()

    return render(request, 'index.html', {'books': books})
```

```html
<!-- index.html -->
{% for book in books %}
<div>
  {{ book.title }}

  {% call book.is_read(request.user) as current_user_read %}

  {% if current_user_read %}
  ✅
  {% else %}
  ❌
  {% endif %}
</div>
{% endfor %}
```

## Calling functions

The template tag function argument tries to look as similar to normal Python code as possible. If it is followed by the word "as" and then a variable name, the result of the function will be stored in the context for later use.

```html
<!-- index.html -->
{% call slugify('Hello Goodbye') as slug %}

{{ slug }} <!-- hello-goodbye -->
```

The `call` template tag can only call functions that are available in the context. So, the `slugify` function needs to be added to the context in the view.

```python
# views.py
from django.shortcuts import render
from django.utils.text import slugify

def index(request):
    return render(request, 'index.html', {'slugify': slugify})
```

If an "as" is not used, a stringified result of the function will be output directly in the template.

```html
<!-- index.html -->
{% call slugify('Hello Goodbye') %} <!-- hello-goodbye -->
```

## Traversing

### Objects

```python
# views.py
from django.shortcuts import render
import django

def index(request):
    return render(request, 'index.html', {'django': django})
```

```html
{% call django.utils.text.slugify('Hello Goodbye') as slug %}

{{ slug }} <!-- hello-goodbye -->
```

### Dictionaries

```python
# views.py
from django.shortcuts import render
import django

def index(request):
    data = {"functions": {"slugify": django.utils.text.slugify}}
    return render(request, "index.html", {"data": data})
```

```html
<!-- index.html -->
{% call data.functions.slugify('Hello Goodbye') as slug %}

{{ slug }} <!-- hello-goodbye -->
```

## Supported argument types

Most Python primitives are supported as arguments, e.g. strings, ints, lists, dictionaries, etc.

```python
# views.py
from django.shortcuts import render

def index(request):
    return render(request, 'index.html', {'add': lambda a, b: a + b})
```

```html
<!-- index.html -->
{% call add(2, 3) as result %}

{{ result }} <!-- 5 -->
```

### Datetimes

There are a few helper methods available to parse datetimes from strings in the [django.utils.dateparse](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/stable/ref/utils/#module-django.utils.dateparse) module.

```python
# views.py
from django.shortcuts import render
from datetime import timedelta
from django.utils.dateparse import parse_datetime

def index(request):
    return render(request, 'index.html', {'add_day': lambda dt: parse_datetime(dt) + timedelta(days=1)})
```

```html
<!-- index.html -->
{% call add_day("2025-03-14") as next_day %}

{{ next_day|date:"r" }} <!-- Wed, 13 Mar 2025 00:00:00 -->
```

## Template variables

Django template variables can be used for args or kwargs (as long as they are available in the context).

```python
# views.py
from django.shortcuts import render

def index(request):
    return render(request, 'index.html', {'add': lambda a, b: a + b, 'number_one': 1, 'number_two': 2})
```

```html
<!-- index.html -->
{% call add(number_one, number_two) as result %}

{{ result }} <!-- 3 -->
```

```{note}
If a variable is referred to, but is not available in the context a `VariableDoesNotExist` error will be raised.
```

## Unpacking

Lists and dictionaries can be unpacked using the `*` and `**` operators.

### Args

```python
# views.py
from django.shortcuts import render

def index(request):
    return render(request, 'index.html', {'add': lambda a, b: a + b, 'numbers': [2, 3]})
```

```html
<!-- index.html -->
{% call add(*[2, 3]) as result %}

<!-- using template variable -->
{% call add(*numbers) as result %}

<!-- without unpacking -->
{% call add(2, 3) as result %}

{{ result }} <!-- 5 -->
```

### Kwargs

```python
# views.py
from django.shortcuts import render

def make_name(first_name, last_name):
    return f"{first_name} {last_name}"

def index(request):
    return render(request, 'index.html', {'make_name': make_name, 'name': {'first_name': 'Alice', 'last_name': 'Smith'}})
```

```html
<!-- index.html -->
{% call make_name(**{'first_name': 'Alice', 'last_name': 'Smith'}) as result %}

<!-- using template variable -->
{% call make_name(**name) as result %}

<!-- without unpacking -->
{% call make_name(first_name='Alice', last_name='Smith') as result %}

{{ result }} <!-- Alice Smith -->
```

## Querysets

```python
# views.py
from django.shortcuts import render
from book.models import Book

def index(request):
    books = Book.objects.all()
    return render(request, 'index.html', {'books': books})
```

```html
<!-- index.html -->
{% call books.filter(published__gte='2020-01-01').order_by('name') as books %}

<ul>
{% for book in books %}
<li>{{ book }}</li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>
```

## How does this work?

The `call` template tag is a [custom template tag](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/stable/howto/custom-template-tags/#advanced-custom-template-tags) which parses the first argument into Python AST and then evaluates it. After evaluation, the result is stored in the context with the name specified.

```{note}
If your first thought is "parsing a string into the AST is probably slow", then you might be right. However, usually network latency and database performance will be the actual bottleneck for most applications. However, as always, it is up to each individual to decide if the potential performance implications are worth the trade-off of having less custom code.
```

## Other approaches

- https://djangosnippets.org/snippets/10633/
- https://stackoverflow.com/a/7141173/1962
